---
title: "Risk assessment and sensitivity analysis of flash floods in ungauged basins using coupled hydrologic and hydrodynamic models"
collection: publications
authors: "Li, W., Lin, K., Zhao, T., <b>Lan, T.</b>, Chen, X., Du, H., and Chen, H."
permalink: /publication/2019-03-02-jhydrol-7
date: 2019-03-02
excerpt: ''
venue: 'Journal of Hydrology'
---
Li, W., Lin, K., Zhao, T.,**Lan, T.**, Chen, X., Du, H., and Chen, H.<br>
**Doi: [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhydrol.2019.03.002](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhydrol.2019.03.002)**<br>
 <p style="text-align:justify; text-justify:inter-ideograph;">
<b>Abstract:</b> Flash floods are among the most devastating natural hazards but the analyses of flash floods are hindered by the lack of hydro-meteorological data. In particular, data issues are critical in ungauged basins. This paper presents an investigation of flash flood modeling using coupled hydrological and hydrodynamic models. Specifically, the TOPography-based hydrological MODEL (TOPMODEL) is employed to obtain the flood hydrograph and the coupled 1D-2D hydrodynamic model MIKEFLOOD is used to simulate floodplain inundation. The methods are tested in the Pajiang River, a mountainous basin in South China. The results show that the TOPMODEL effectively simulates the flood hydrograph and the Nash–Sutcliffe coefficients of the flow rate are larger than 0.80 for both calibration and validation. Also, MIKEFLOOD effectively simulates the flood inundation extent and flooding depth and the BIAS for simulated water level is −0.004 m. Further, using socioeconomic and historical flood disaster datasets, areas with high flash flood risk are identified. A flash flood risk assessment shows a clear trend of change in the flood hazard and the spatial heterogeneity of the flood vulnerability is significant. A sensitivity analysis of the flood vulnerability to the socioeconomic indicators indicates that cultivated land is the most sensitive indicators, and the population and the construction areas have similar influences. Overall, the coupled hydrological and hydrodynamic models prove effective and can be used in practical applications for flash flood risk mapping.<br>