---
title: "Detection and attribution of abrupt shift in minor periods in human-impacted streamflow"
collection: publications
authors: "<b>Lan, T.</b>, Zhang, H., Xu, C. Y., Singh, V. P., and Lin, K."
permalink: /publication/2020-02-07-jhydrol-3
date: 2020-02-07
excerpt: ''
venue: 'Journal of Hydrology'
---
**Lan, T.**, Zhang, H., Xu, C. Y., Singh, V. P., and Lin, K.<br>
**Doi: [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhydrol.2020.124637](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhydrol.2020.124637)**<br>
 <p style="text-align:justify; text-justify:inter-ideograph;">
<b>Abstract:</b> Understanding the long-term variability of streamflow and its response to human activities in water-limited areas is essential for socio-hydrologic models’ development. In this study, a framework for the detection and attribution of abrupt shift of minor periods in human-impacted streamflow is proposed. First, the most significant abrupt shift in human-impacted streamflow is detected using the Pettitt test and verified based on different statistical characteristics of streamflow series (trend, periodicity, and different quantiles) and main physical causes (main reservoirs operations). According to the breakpoint, the study period was divided into approximately natural sub-period and human-impacted sub-period. Interestingly, we found the “missing” of minor (2–4-year timescale) periods of the runoff records after abrupt shift points in the study cases. To investigate its mechanisms, we proposed an Improved Multivariate Fuzzy Mean Generating Function (IMFMGF) model to simulate the natural runoff in the human-impacted period and decomposed the observed runoff into natural runoff component and human-impacted changing runoff component. Then, the periodicity of these two components was compared based on Morlet wavelet analysis and Ensemble Empirical Mode Decomposition (EEMD). Results showed that the minor periods’ wave crests and troughs of the above two components had excellent negative correspondence. The candidate mechanism is that the offsetting effects (i.e., the regular anthropogenic withdrawal or intake of water.) resulted in the disappearance of minor periods of the humanimpacted observed, which can give more certain inputs into the prediction of non-stationary streamflow series. .<br>
</p >
< img src='/images/paper3/3-1.jpg'>< img src='/images/paper3/3-2.jpg'>< img src='/images/paper3/3-3.jpg'>
